ACME HOSPITAL
Auburndale, MA 01900

PATIENT NAME: Jim Reilly
DATE: 5/12/2016
DOB: 01/15/1998
MRN: 180734345
SSN: 203-90-3829
SURGEON: Brown Brandon, MD
ASSISTANT: Jonny Smith, MD
ANESTHESIA: GA
 
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION:  Jim Reilly age 31,  was placed on the operating room table in a supine position.  General anesthetic was induced and maintained with oral endotracheal tube.  The right lower limb was then scrubbed and prepped with DuraPrep and draped with sterile towels and drapes.
Greater saphenous vein was then harvested, was then exposed from the saphenofemoral junction down to the proximal third of the leg.  The proximal and distal 10 cm were dissected circumferentially and side branches ligated.   It was markedly atherosclerotic with no suitable area to do an anastomosis consistent w/ previous arteriography with Dr. Mills on 3/24/15.  The distal external iliac artery had a good pulse and some soft areas.  A 8mm stent was identified within the external iliac artery, which had been placed at the hospital last May.  Next, the popliteal artery was dissected.  It appeared to be soft and suitable for anastomosis in the below-knee popliteal fossa.
Next, the distal anastomosis was done.  Vessel was pulled snug on the popliteal artery.  Cut made with a 15 blade knife, extended proximally and distally with scissors.  Stay sutures of 7-0 Prolene were placed, regional heparinization was used.  The vein was spatulated, anastomosed end-to-side to the artery without twisting it with running 6-0 Prolene.  Pr to completing the anastomosis, the anastomosis was flushed.  There appeared to be good flow, independently confirmed by Dr. Tanaka and Dr. Brown.  The anastomosis then completed, the vessel loops loosened, and the vascular clamp removed.  There appeared to be good flow in the distal popliteal artery, dorsalis pedis, and posterior tibial artery signals were both audible with a Doppler.
Completion of arteriogram was then done by placing a 20-gauge angiocatheter to side branch.  This revealed a widely patent anastomosis, but there appeared to be some spasm within the distal aspect of the vein.  The vein was inspected.  There did not appear to be any spasm.  There appeared to be reasonable pulse in this area.  Doppler flow was satisfactory.  I concluded that this was artifact and shot the study again, but the same result was obtained.  Since Mr. Gladly had a good dorsalis pedis Doppler signal, good Doppler within the graft, I elected to close.  The wound was closed with running 2-0 Vicryl for the subcutaneous tissue, running 4-0 Vicryl subcuticular suture for the skin.  Sterile bandage was applied, tolerated the procedure without complications, left the operating room to go to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.
 
 
--
AHT 
Date: 3/13/2016
Time: 07:44:32

